All right.
So in this video it's time to download and install the IDC integrated development environment that we're
gonna be using in this course.
And just a reminder before we proceed that this video is for Windows.
Check out the other videos in this section.
If you're on a Mac or you're running Linux.
All right so what we need to do is visit get brains dot com and other people who are responsible for
the product call Intel each idea that we're gonna be using in this course.
So once you get to that website I come up here to tools and you can go down and I've got to click on
intelligent ideas when that screen loads I'm going to click on a download.
I'm going to close down this little box here which is a cookies pop up you may have seen on other Web
sites.
Click on yes I agree to close it down.
You've actually got two versions that you can download the Community Edition over here on the right
hand side you can see it says that it's free and open source so you'll never need to pay for it.
And that's the version that I'm going to download and install.
And the one that I recommend to use for the course I'm gonna click on that even a moment to start.
You can see it and then starting on the click on run.
And while that's downloading I'm just gonna click on back and talk briefly about the differences you
can see that the ultimate edition is a commercial license.
So it's not open source and therefore not free.
So you can grab that if you want.
It's got a lot of extra tools and capabilities and it's aimed at professional developers.
You do get a free trial.
Brains give you a 30 day trial and if you want to extend a trial to 120 days check out the extend and
whole time Holtzman edition lecture which is right at the end of this course.
You can go there and get a code to extend it by another 90 days.
That's only if you want to use the Ultimate Edition.
But in our case we're going to be using the committee edition.
You don't need to do any of that I'm going to close down the browser because we to go through the process
now of installing intelligent ideas from the click on yes here and now we've got a standard wizard and
I'm going to go through the steps to install and click on.
Next I click on Next again accepting the default destination folder.
Now when you get this first grade it's important to get this bit right in the last video.
You saw me establish that for me.
I was on a 64 bit operating system.
So up here and I create desktop shortcut.
I'm going to click on 64 bit launcher.
If you were on a 32 bit operating system you would choose the 32 bit launcher.
And in addition to that you'd also come down here and click on download and install Gyari excite six
by jet planes.
That's only if you're a 32 bit user.
In my case I'm a 64 bit user which we established in the last few days.
I'm just clicking on 64 bit launcher and not selecting that these create associations.
I suggest you check all three of those and that just means that if you've got a file with any of those
extensions which is basically some java code groovy which is another language and Colin you click any
of those it will open up an intelligence.
So I'm gonna click on Next click on install and it's going to go through the process of installing Intel
each idea on this computer and just to note that if you did have a 32 bit operating system and he selected
to download the Gyari you'll find that that will take a while and that will increase the time for completion
of this installation process.
But in my case again I was on a 64 bit machine and didn't need and didn't need to do that right so I
got a pause and let us finish and will come back once it's complete.
All right.
So at this point now you can see that the installation has completed.
I'm going to check the checkbox so that we run until it idea and click on finish and you can see that's
actually popped up.
They can't say that too well and that's because what I've done is I've actually upsized the windows
so that they fit better we can see things a little bit more clearly but that hasn't worked too well
for this particular dialogue.
That's basically telling us is that there's an option for you to import Intel E.J. I.D. settings from
a custom location.
Now that would be if you had it in previous installation of intelligence idea and you wanted to restore
all the various settings.
But in my case this is a brand new installation on a brand new machine.
So I'm going to select the option do not import settings and click Okay.
Now depending on your location you may or may not get this option on screen now about git brains privacy
policy.
So I'm going to scroll down to the bottom here in any case I'm going to click on except if you get that
just accept that.
And in terms of data sharing you can change the behavior there and send usage statistics to jet brains.
I'm going to click on don't send
all right.
So at this point now we've got the option of choosing the theme for intelligence noting that it's telling
us down there that we can go into the settings and changes later.
I'm going to select the white background which is good for video but you might want to select Dracula.
But the choice is yours.
And then I'm going to click on next and what intelligence allows you to do is install a variety of different
tools.
We don't need any of these tools at this point of course I'm just gonna click on Next particularly stole
anything that if you wanted to.
And likewise for the feature plugins we are going to be using any of those either some of the click
on start using intelligence my idea of
all right.
So at this point no we've done the basic installation of intelligence idea what we need to do.
So once only process is we need to associate the Java development kit that we've previously downloaded
and installed with intelligence so that intelligence is able to access and use that Java development
kit the way we're going to do that is going gonna click on configure going to click on project defaults
then select project structure that brings up the screen here and if you installing intelligent idea
for the first time you'll probably get something similar to me.
Can not you can see on screen here with no SDK and just in case sometimes until it opens up down here
and domestic cases make sure you click on project if you see that.
So over here what that's saying is there's no SDK is T.K. means suffer development kit.
It's not just telling us that we need to define and set one up to do that.
I'm going to click on you to come over here and select J.D. K. Now in some cases Intel each idea will
automatically find the version or the Java development kit that we installed in the previous video.
In this case it hasn't found it for us.
So what would they need to do is navigate to the folder where that was installed.
I'm gonna come down here and click on the triangles there.
Mary if you recall it was C column backslash program files then it was Java That's Kyle Evans.
I was going to click on JT Cale over there.
Now if you happen to have downloaded the 32 bit version of Java which was Java 8 you will most likely
have a J R E which stands for Java runtime edition and a J.D. K. folder.
In that scenario make sure you selected J.D. K. folder that you can see that I've got selected here.
I'm going to click on okay and you can say that something happened up here and we've now got an option
we've got nodes to k but we're now also got this option here.
Java eleven so that will obviously be Java right.
If that's the version you downloaded then the other thing you need to do is depending on the version
you want to match the project language level to the version you download.
So my case is set currently to 10.
I'm going to change that to eleven that's for Java eleven.
Then we need to click on accept here which will probably disappear in a future version of intelligent
because this is because the Java developer kid is so new as of the time that I'm recording this video.
Now obviously if you downloaded Java right you would select eight here which would match the version
you've downloaded.
But in my case I've selected 11 I'm going to click on okay.
Okay.
And at that point what we've done is we've now installed or configured the Java development kit to work
with Intel A.J..
It's just a few other settings we need to do now which are once only settings which just makes life
a little bit easier for you when you're starting out with Java with intelligent idea and to get access
to those we come back here you click on configure select settings and when that comes up we kind of
go down to Ed and select General we're gonna open that up there and I'm going to select what how important
I want I'm going to check is these two boxes here which is add an ambiguous imports on the fly as well
as optimized inputs on the fly for kind of project and we'll be talking more in a future video as to
what they mean for now just check those.
The other thing you want to do is come down to a parent's to make sure that line numbers is checked
which it is by default.
But make sure that is checked.
And the last two options we want to set are under here on a code folding and what we wanted to do a
few things we want to actually take the checkbox off in ports so we're not kind of collapse imports
on a uncheck the one line methods we want to uncheck closures but we want to uncheck generic constructor
and method parameters.
Now if you're new to Java that probably doesn't make a lot of sense.
But essentially what we're doing here is we're setting ourselves up to not get the OK to make sure rather
that the editor intelligent doesn't hide any code as you become more experienced as a developer.
You'll want to hide portions of the code to focus on what you're working on but when we're starting
out we want access and see everything.
So this is the reasonable we've actually uncheck those options.
So they're all the code will actually be shown right.
So finally I want to click on Okay now saved all those settings at this point we're ready to start programming
so successfully configured Intel each idea and we're now ready to move on to the next video.
And just a reminder to get access to the next to that next video you can skip the next four videos because
their installation videos for the Mac and Linux go to the video after that.
That's got the title first steps.
I'll see you in that video.